docs/images/alpine-mosquitto.md, before:

---
description: MultiArch Alpine Linux + S6 + Mosquitto server.
svcname: mosquitto
has_services:
  - compose
  - nomad
tags:
  - compose
  - nomad
  - package
  - s6
  - service
---

{% import "macros.md" as m with context %}
{% include "shields.md" %}

This [image][155] containerizes the [Mosquitto][1] Message broker
to setup a pub-sub service using the [MQTT][2] / Websocket protocol.

{{ m.srcimage('alpine-s6') }} with the {{ m.alpinepkg('mosquitto')
}} package installed in it.

{% include "pull-image.md" %}

---
Run
---

Running the container starts the service.

``` sh
docker run --rm \
  --name docker_mosquitto \
  -e USERNAME=mosquitto \
  -e PASSWORD=insecurebydefault \
  -p 1883:1883 \
  -p 8883:8883 \
  -v $PWD/data:/mosquitto \
woahbase/alpine-mosquitto
```

--8<-- "multiarch.md"

---
##### Configuration
---

We can customize the runtime behaviour of the container with the
following environment variables.

| ENV Vars       | Default                             | Description
| :---           | :---                                | :---
| MOSQUITTO_ARGS | -c /mosquitto/config/mosquitto.conf | Customizable arguments passed to `mosquitto` service.
| USERNAME       | mosquitto                           | Default username for authentication.
| PASSWORD       | insecurebydefault                   | Default password for authentication.
{% include "envvars/alpine-s6.md" %}

--8<-- "check-id.md"

Also,

* Config file is at `/mosquitto/config/mosquitto.conf`, edit or
  remount this with your own. A {{
  m.ghfilelink('root/defaults/mosquitto.conf', title='sample')
  }} is provided in the `/defaults/` directory, this gets copied
  if none exist.

* Data stored at `/mosquitto/data`.

* Default configuration listens to ports `1883` and `8883`.

* Anonymous connects are disabled by default.

[1]: https://mosquitto.org/
[2]: http://mqtt.org/

{% include "all-include.md" %}

Commit message:

update docs coturn,dhcp,mosquitto

docs/images/alpine-mosquitto.md, after:

---
description: MultiArch Alpine Linux + S6 + Mosquitto server.
svcname: mosquitto
has_services:
  - compose
  - nomad
tags:
  - compose
  - nomad
  - package
  - s6
  - service
---

{% import "macros.md" as m with context %}
{% include "shields.md" %}

This [image][155] containerizes the [Mosquitto][1] Message broker
to setup a pub-sub service using the [MQTT][2] / Websocket protocol.

{{ m.srcimage('alpine-s6') }} with the {{ m.alpinepkg('mosquitto')
}} package installed in it.

{% include "pull-image.md" %}

---
Run
---

Running the container starts the service.

``` sh
docker run --rm \
  --name docker_mosquitto \
  -e USERNAME=mosquitto \
  -e PASSWORD=insecurebydefault \
  -p 1883:1883 \
  -p 8883:8883 \
  -v $PWD/data:/mosquitto \
woahbase/alpine-mosquitto
```

--8<-- "multiarch.md"

---
##### Configuration
---

We can customize the runtime behaviour of the container with the
following environment variables.

| ENV Vars                        | Default                              | Description
| :---                            | :---                                 | :---
| MOSQUITTO_CONFDIR               | /mosquitto/config                    | Path to configuration directory. Expected to contain `mosquitto.conf`.
| MOSQUITTO__(parameter)          | unset                                | If set and no configuration file exists at `$MOSQUITTO_CONFDIR/mosquitto.conf`, will set the parameter (if exists) with the value. E.g. `MOSQUITTO__persistence=false`. (Note the **double** underscores.)  (since `mosquitto v2.0.18_20240903`)
| MOSQUITTO__persistence_location | /mosquitto/data                      | Path to datastore directory. (since `mosquitto v2.0.18_20240903`)
| MOSQUITTO__log_dest             | stderr                               | Path to log destination (will create file if set to `file /path/to/file.log`). (since `mosquitto v2.0.18_20240903`)
| MOSQUITTO__password_file        | $MOSQUITTO_CONFDIR/.passwd           | Path to auth file. (since `mosquitto v2.0.18_20240903`)
| USERNAME                        | mosquitto                            | Default username for authentication.
| PASSWORD                        | insecurebydefault                    | Default password for authentication.
| MOSQUITTO_ARGS                  | -c $MOSQUITTO_CONFDIR/mosquitto.conf | Customizable arguments passed to `mosquitto` service.
{% include "envvars/alpine-s6.md" %}

--8<-- "check-id.md"

Also,

* Config file is at `/mosquitto/config/mosquitto.conf`, edit or
  remount this with your own. A {{ m.ghfilelink('root/defaults/mosquitto.conf', title='sample') }}
  is provided in the `/defaults/` directory, this gets copied
  if none exist.

* Data stored at `/mosquitto/data`.

* Default configuration listens to ports `1883` and `8883`.

* Anonymous connects are disabled by default. Generates password
  file with `USERNAME` and `PASSWORD` if not exists.

* Check the [docs][3] or [configuration][4] options for
  customizing your own.

[1]: https://mosquitto.org/
[2]: http://mqtt.org/
[3]: https://mosquitto.org/documentation/
[4]: https://mosquitto.org/man/mosquitto-conf-5.html

{% include "all-include.md" %}
